# .github

## Authors
Sakin Kirti (CWRU 2023), Mohana Venkatapuram (CWRU 2023), Alena Tochilkina (CWRU 2024), Rajan Patel (CWRU 2024)

## Introduction
Health literacy is a person’s ability to understand general healthcare information in order to successfully make decisions for their own personal health. Low health literacy affects over 36% of United States adults (Kružliaková et al., 2021). A basic understanding of health knowledge is essential to doctor-patient interaction and has a significant impact on health outcomes, especially in marginalized communities where literacy rates are lower. Because of this, the American Medical Association suggests that healthcare-related pamphlets should be written at the 6th grade reading level. However, material does not meet these recommendations (Bernard et al., 2017, Lee et al., 2019), and are at or above a 10th grade reading level (Ayyaswami et al., 2019). The material can be distilled to a reading level more attainable for the general public and a website or a mobile application can provide patients an easily accessible destination for their healthcare-related questions. Based on conversations with current Case Western public health professors, we have learned that the majority of individuals have access to a mobile device with a data plan and may not have access to a laptop with a reliable source of wifi. Thus, a mobile application is the ideal platform for providing healthcare-information at an approachable reading level.

We aim to create an application that houses medical information at truly accessible reading levels for the Cleveland community. The application would exist on both iOS and Android platforms and would be free of charge to download and use. The app would have three main features. First, the app would include a section dedicated to informational pamphlets regarding basic medical information. For example, some pamphlets would focus on various common diseases and illnesses, while others would focus on answering questions like ‘How do I make an appointment with a doctor,’ or ‘How can I speak to my doctor about my medical condition effectively?’ or ‘What will my insurance cover?’ The second would be a dedicated FAQ section where users can ask us questions regarding any healthcare topic or even propose ideas for new pamphlets. The third section would provide access to general healthcare information, such as the location of low cost clinics, pharmacies, and other services that are located near the user. While The Pamphlet Project aims to begin with the local Cleveland community, we hope to expand our reach beyond northeast Ohio so other individuals can benefit from the information our application would provide.
